<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>LXVI: The Aspirations of Mr. Emilius</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-66" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="z3998:ordinal z3998:roman">LXVI</h2>
				<p epub:type="title">The Aspirations of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝEmilius</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>It was acknowledged by <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝCarbuncle very freely that in the matter of tribute no one behaved better than <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝEmilius, the fashionable, foreign, ci-devant Jew preacher, who still drew great congregations in the neighbourhood of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝCarbuncle‚Äôs house. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝCarbuncle, no doubt, attended regularly at <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝEmilius‚Äôs church, and had taken a sitting for thirteen Sundays at something like ten shillings a Sunday. But she had not as yet paid the money, and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝEmilius was well aware that if his tickets were not paid for in advance, there would be considerable defalcations in his income. He was, as a rule, very particular as to such payments, and would not allow a name to be put on a sitting till the money had reached his pockets; but with <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝCarbuncle he had descended to no such commercial accuracy. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝCarbuncle had seats for three‚ÅÝ‚Äîfor one of which Lady Eustace paid her share in advance‚ÅÝ‚Äîin the midst of the very best pews in the most conspicuous part of the house‚ÅÝ‚Äîand hardly a word had been said to her about the money. And now there came to them from <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝEmilius the prettiest little gold salver that ever was seen. ‚ÄúI send <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Messrs.</abbr> Clerico‚Äôs docket,‚Äù wrote <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝEmilius, ‚Äúas Miss Roanoke may like to know the quality of the metal.‚Äù ‚ÄúAh,‚Äù said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝCarbuncle, inspecting the little dish, and putting two and two together; ‚Äúhe‚Äôs got it cheap, no doubt‚ÅÝ‚Äîat the place where they commissioned him to buy the plate and candlesticks for the church; but at ¬£3 16<abbr>s.</abbr> 3<abbr>d.</abbr> the gold is worth nearly twenty pounds.‚Äù <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝEmilius no doubt had had his outing in the autumn through the instrumentality of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝCarbuncle‚Äôs kindness; but that was past and gone, and such lavish gratitude for a past favour could hardly be expected from <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝEmilius. ‚ÄúI‚Äôll be hanged if he isn‚Äôt after Portray Castle,‚Äù said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝCarbuncle to herself.</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝEmilius was after Portray Castle, and had been after Portray Castle in a silent, not very confident, but yet not altogether hopeless manner ever since he had seen the glories of that place, and learned something of truth as to the widow‚Äôs income. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝCarbuncle was led to her conclusion not simply by the wedding present, but in part also by the diligence displayed by <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝEmilius in removing the doubts which had got abroad respecting his condition in life. He assured <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝCarbuncle that he had never been married. Shortly after his ordination, which had been effected under the hands of that great and good man the late Bishop of Jerusalem, he had taken to live with him a lady who was‚ÅÝ‚Äî<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝCarbuncle did not quite recollect who the lady was, but remembered that she was connected in some way with a stepmother of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝEmilius who lived in Bohemia. This lady had for awhile kept house for <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝEmilius;‚ÅÝ‚Äîbut ill-natured things had been said, and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝEmilius, having respect to his cloth, had sent the poor lady back to Bohemia. The consequence was that he now lived in a solitude which was absolute, and, as <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝEmilius added, somewhat melancholy. All this <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝEmilius explained very fully, not to Lizzie herself, but to <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝCarbuncle. If Lady Eustace chose to entertain such a suitor, why should he not come? It was nothing to <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝCarbuncle.</p>
			<p>Lizzie laughed when she was told that she might add the reverend gentleman to the list of her admirers. ‚ÄúDon‚Äôt you remember,‚Äù she said, ‚Äúhow we used to chaff Miss Macnulty about him?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI knew better than that,‚Äù replied <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝCarbuncle.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThere is no saying what a man may be after,‚Äù said Lizzie. ‚ÄúI didn‚Äôt know but what he might have thought that Macnulty‚Äôs connections would increase his congregation.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúHe‚Äôs after you, my dear, and your income. He can manage a congregation for himself.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Lizzie was very civil to him, but it would be unjust to her to say that she gave him any encouragement. It is quite the proper thing for a lady to be on intimate, and even on affectionate, terms with her favourite clergyman, and Lizzie certainly had intercourse with no clergyman who was a greater favourite with her than <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝEmilius. She had a dean for an uncle, and a bishop for an uncle-in-law; but she was at no pains to hide her contempt for these old fogies of the Church. ‚ÄúThey preach now and then in the cathedral,‚Äù she said to <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝEmilius, ‚Äúand everybody takes the opportunity of going to sleep.‚Äù <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝEmilius was very much amused at this description of the eloquence of the dignitaries. It was quite natural to him that people should go to sleep in church who take no trouble in seeking eloquent preachers. ‚ÄúAh,‚Äù he said, ‚Äúthe Church in England, which is my Church‚ÅÝ‚Äîthe Church which I love‚ÅÝ‚Äîis beautiful. She is as a maiden, all glorious with fine raiment. But alas! she is mute. She does not sing. She has no melody. But the time cometh in which she shall sing. I, myself‚ÅÝ‚ÄîI am a poor singer in the great choir.‚Äù In saying which <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝEmilius no doubt intended to allude to his eloquence as a preacher.</p>
			<p>He was a man who could listen as well as sing, and he was very careful to hear well that which was being said in public about Lady Eustace and her diamonds. He had learned thoroughly what was her condition in reference to the Portray estate, and was rejoiced rather than otherwise to find that she enjoyed only a life-interest in the property. Had the thing been better than it was, it would have been the further removed from his reach. And in the same way, when rumours reached him prejudicial to Lizzie in respect of the diamonds, he perceived that such prejudice might work weal for him. A gentleman once, on ordering a mackerel for dinner, was told that a fresh mackerel would come to a shilling. He could have a stale mackerel for sixpence. ‚ÄúThen bring me a stale mackerel,‚Äù said the gentleman. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝEmilius coveted fish, but was aware that his position did not justify him in expecting the best fish on the market. The Lord Fawns and the Frank Greystocks of the world would be less likely to covet Lizzie, should she, by any little indiscretion, have placed herself under a temporary cloud. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝEmilius had carefully observed the heavens, and knew how quickly such clouds will disperse themselves when they are tinged with gold. There was nothing which Lizzie had done, or would be likely to do, which could materially affect her income. It might indeed be possible that the Eustaces should make her pay for the necklace; but even in that case, there would be quite enough left for that modest, unambitious comfort which <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝEmilius desired. It was by preaching, and not by wealth, that he must make himself known in the world!‚ÅÝ‚Äîbut for a preacher to have a pretty wife with a title and a good income‚ÅÝ‚Äîand a castle in Scotland‚ÅÝ‚Äîwhat an Elysium it would be! In such a condition he would envy no dean, no bishop‚ÅÝ‚Äîno archbishop! He thought a great deal about it, and saw no positive bar to his success.</p>
			<p>She told him that she was going to Scotland. ‚ÄúNot immediately!‚Äù he exclaimed.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúMy little boy is there,‚Äù she said.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúBut why should not your little boy be here? Surely, for people who can choose, the great centre of the world offers attractions which cannot be found in secluded spots.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI love seclusion,‚Äù said Lizzie, with rapture.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúAh, yes; I can believe that.‚Äù <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝEmilius had himself witnessed the seclusion of Portray Castle, and had heard, when there, many stories of the Ayrshire hunting. ‚ÄúIt is your nature;‚ÅÝ‚Äîbut, dear Lady Eustace, will you allow me to say that our nature is implanted in us in accordance with the Fall?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúDo you mean to say that it is wicked to like to be in Scotland better than in this giddy town?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI say nothing about wicked, Lady Eustace; but this I do say, that nature alone will not lead us always aright. It is good to be at Portray part of the year, no doubt; but are there not blessings in such a congregation of humanity as this London which you cannot find at Portray?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI can hear you preach, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝEmilius, certainly.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI hope that is something, too, Lady Eustace;‚ÅÝ‚Äîotherwise a great many people who kindly come to hear me must sadly waste their time. And your example to the world around;‚ÅÝ‚Äîis it not more serviceable amidst the crowds of London than in the solitudes of Scotland? There is more good to be done, Lady Eustace, by living among our fellow-creatures than by deserting them. Therefore I think you should not go to Scotland before August, but should have your little boy brought to you here.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThe air of his native mountains is everything to my child,‚Äù said Lizzie. The child had, in fact, been born at Bobsborough, but that probably would make no real difference.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYou cannot wonder that I should plead for your stay,‚Äù said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝEmilius, throwing all his soul into his eyes. ‚ÄúHow dark would everything be to me if I missed you from your seat in the house of praise and prayer!‚Äù</p>
			<p>Lizzie Eustace, like some other ladies who ought to be more appreciative, was altogether deficient in what may perhaps be called good taste in reference to men. Though she was clever, and though, in spite of her ignorance, she at once knew an intelligent man from a fool, she did not know the difference between a gentleman and a‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äúcad.‚Äù It was in her estimation something against <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝEmilius that he was a clergyman, something against him that he had nothing but what he earned, something against him that he was supposed to be a renegade Jew, and that nobody knew whence he came nor who he was. These deficiencies or drawbacks Lizzie recognised. But it was nothing against him in her judgment that he was a greasy, fawning, pawing, creeping, black-browed rascal, who could not look her full in the face, and whose every word sounded like a lie. There was a twang in his voice which ought to have told her that he was utterly untrustworthy. There was an oily pretence at earnestness in his manner which ought to have told that he was not fit to associate with gentlemen. There was a foulness of demeanour about him which ought to have given to her, as a woman at any rate brought up among ladies, an abhorrence of his society. But all this Lizzie did not feel. She ridiculed to <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝCarbuncle the idea of the preacher‚Äôs courtship. She still thought that in the teeth of all her misfortunes she could do better with herself than marry <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝEmilius. She conceived that the man must be impertinent if <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝCarbuncle‚Äôs assertions were true;‚ÅÝ‚Äîbut she was neither angry nor disgusted, and she allowed him to talk to her, and even to make love to her, after his nasty pseudo-clerical fashion.</p>
			<p>She could surely still do better with herself than marry <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝEmilius! It was now the twentieth of March, and a fortnight had gone since an intimation had been sent to her from the headquarters of the police that Patience Crabstick was in their hands. Nothing further had occurred, and it might be that Patience Crabstick had told no tale against her. She could not bring herself to believe that Patience had no tale to tell, but it might be that Patience, though she was in the hands of the police, would find it to her interest to tell no tale against her late mistress. At any rate, there was silence and quiet, and the affair of the diamonds seemed almost to be passing out of people‚Äôs minds. Greystock had twice called in Scotland Yard, but had been able to learn nothing. It was feared, they said, that the people really engaged in the robbery had got away scot-free. Frank did not quite believe them, but he could learn nothing from them. Thus encouraged, Lizzie determined that she would remain in London till after Lucinda‚Äôs marriage‚ÅÝ‚Äîtill after she should have received the promised letter from Lord Fawn, as to which, though it was so long in coming, she did not doubt that it would come at last. She could do nothing with Frank‚ÅÝ‚Äîwho was a fool! She could do nothing with Lord George‚ÅÝ‚Äîwho was a brute! Lord Fawn would still be within her reach, if only the secret about the diamonds could be kept a secret till after she should have become his wife.</p>
			<p>About this time Lucinda spoke to her respecting her proposed journey. ‚ÄúYou were talking of going to Scotland a week ago, Lady Eustace.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúAnd am still talking of it.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúAunt Jane says that you are waiting for my wedding. It is very kind of you;‚ÅÝ‚Äîbut pray don‚Äôt do that.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI shouldn‚Äôt think of going now till after your marriage. It only wants ten or twelve days.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI count them. I know how many days it wants. It may want more than that.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYou can‚Äôt put it off now, I should think,‚Äù said Lizzie; ‚Äúand as I have ordered my dress for the occasion I shall certainly stay and wear it.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI am very sorry for your dress. I am very sorry for it all. Do you know;‚ÅÝ‚ÄîI sometimes think I shall‚ÅÝ‚Äîmurder him.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúLucinda‚ÅÝ‚Äîhow can you say anything so horrible! But I see you are only joking.‚Äù There did come a ghastly smile over that beautiful face, which was so seldom lighted up by any expression of mirth or good humour. ‚ÄúBut I wish you would not say such horrible things.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúIt would serve him right;‚ÅÝ‚Äîand if he were to murder me, that would serve me right. He knows that I detest him, and yet he goes on with it. I have told him so a score of times, but nothing will make him give it up. It is not that he loves me, but he thinks that that will be his triumph.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWhy don‚Äôt you give it up, if it makes you unhappy?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúIt ought to come from him‚ÅÝ‚Äîought it not?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI don‚Äôt see why,‚Äù said Lizzie.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúHe is not bound to anybody as I am bound to my aunt. No one can have exacted an oath from him. Lady Eustace, you don‚Äôt quite understand how we are situated. I wonder whether you would take the trouble to be good to me?‚Äù</p>
			<p>Lucinda Roanoke had never asked a favour of her before;‚ÅÝ‚Äîhad never, to Lizzie‚Äôs knowledge, asked a favour of anyone. ‚ÄúIn what way can I be good to you?‚Äù she said.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúMake him give it up. You may tell him what you like of me. Tell him that I shall only make him miserable, and more despicable than he is;‚ÅÝ‚Äîthat I shall never be a good wife to him. Tell him that I am thoroughly bad, and that he will repent it to the last day of his life. Say whatever you like‚ÅÝ‚Äîbut make him give it up.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWhen everything has been prepared!‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWhat does all that signify compared to a life of misery? Lady Eustace, I really think that I should‚ÅÝ‚Äîkill him, if he really were‚ÅÝ‚Äîwere my husband.‚Äù Lizzie at last said that she would, at any rate, speak to Sir Griffin.</p>
			<p>And she did speak to Sir Griffin, having waited three or four days for an opportunity to do so. There had been some desperately sharp words between Sir Griffin and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝCarbuncle with reference to money. Sir Griffin had been given to understand that Lucinda had, or would have, some few hundred pounds, and insisted that the money should be handed over to him on the day of his marriage. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝCarbuncle had declared that the money was to come from property to be realised in New York, and had named a day which had seemed to Sir Griffin to be as the Greek Kalends. He expressed an opinion that he was swindled, and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝCarbuncle, unable to restrain herself, had turned upon him full of wrath. He was caught by Lizzie as he was descending the stairs, and in the dining-room he poured out the tale of his wrongs. ‚ÄúThat woman doesn‚Äôt know what fair dealing means,‚Äù said he.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThat‚Äôs a little hard, Sir Griffin, isn‚Äôt it?‚Äù said Lizzie.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúNot a bit. A trumpery six hundred pounds! And she hasn‚Äôt a shilling of fortune, and never will have, beyond that! No fellow ever was more generous or more foolish than I have been.‚Äù Lizzie, as she heard this, could not refrain from thinking of the poor departed Sir Florian. ‚ÄúI didn‚Äôt look for fortune, or say a word about money, as almost every man does‚ÅÝ‚Äîbut just took her as she was. And now she tells me that I can‚Äôt have just the bit of money that I wanted for our tour. It would serve them both right if I were to give it up.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWhy don‚Äôt you?‚Äù said Lizzie. He looked quickly, sharply, and closely into her face as she asked the question. ‚ÄúI would, if I thought as you do.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúAnd lay myself in for all manner of damages,‚Äù said Sir Griffin.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThere wouldn‚Äôt be anything of that kind, I‚Äôm sure. You see, the truth is, you and Miss Roanoke are always having‚ÅÝ‚Äîhaving little tiffs together. I sometimes think you don‚Äôt really care a bit for her.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúIt‚Äôs the old woman I‚Äôm complaining of,‚Äù said Sir Griffin, ‚Äúand I‚Äôm not going to marry her. I shall have seen the last of her when I get out of the church, Lady Eustace.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúDo you think she wishes it?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWho do you mean?‚Äù asked Sir Griffin.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWhy;‚ÅÝ‚ÄîLucinda.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúOf course she does. Where‚Äôd she be now if it wasn‚Äôt to go on? I don‚Äôt believe they‚Äôve money enough between them to pay the rent of the house they‚Äôre living in.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúOf course, I don‚Äôt want to make difficulties, Sir Griffin, and no doubt the affair has gone very far now. But I really think Lucinda would consent to break it off if you wish it. I have never thought that you were really in love with her.‚Äù</p>
			<p>He again looked at her very sharply and very closely. ‚ÄúHas she sent you to say all this?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúHas who sent me? <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝCarbuncle didn‚Äôt.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúBut Lucinda?‚Äù</p>
			<p>She paused for a moment before she replied;‚ÅÝ‚Äîbut she could not bring herself to be absolutely honest in the matter. ‚ÄúNo;‚ÅÝ‚Äîshe didn‚Äôt send me. But from what I see and hear, I am quite sure she does not wish to go on with it.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThen she shall go on with it,‚Äù said Sir Griffin. ‚ÄúI‚Äôm not going to be made a fool of in that way. She shall go on with it; and the first thing I mean to tell her as my wife is, that she shall never see that woman again. If she thinks she‚Äôs going to be master, she‚Äôs very much mistaken.‚Äù Sir Griffin, as he said this, showed his teeth, and declared his purpose to be masterful by his features as well as by his words;‚ÅÝ‚Äîbut Lady Eustace was, nevertheless, of opinion that when the two came to an absolute struggle for mastery, the lady would get the better of it.</p>
			<p>Lizzie never told Miss Roanoke of her want of success, or even of the effort she had made; nor did the unhappy young woman come to her for any reply. The preparations went on, and it was quite understood that on this peculiar occasion <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝCarbuncle intended to treat her friends with profuse hospitality. She proposed to give a breakfast; and as the house in Hertford Street was very small, rooms had been taken at an hotel in Albemarle Street. Thither, as the day of the marriage drew near, all the presents were taken‚ÅÝ‚Äîso that they might be viewed by the guests, with the names of the donors attached to them. As some of the money given had been very much wanted indeed, so that the actual cheques could not be conveniently spared just at the moment to pay for the presents which ought to have been bought‚ÅÝ‚Äîa few very pretty things were hired, as to which, when the donors should see their names attached to them, they should surely think that the money given had been laid out to great advantage.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
